
# Day 1 - 20/09/2023#
> **TASKS:**
- Brushing up of Python, ReactJs topics.

- [Brushing of Java Basics in HackerRank](Day 1-10\Nirmalrajaa K_java_basic certificate.pdf)

- Tried solving the TNPSC Group 4 question paper

 ***


 
# Day 2 21/09/2023 #
> **TASKS:**
- ReactJs project edited

- Python List and List functions are brushed up.

- Tried solving the TNPSC Group 4 question paper

- Brainstorming games like chess and 2048.

- Learnt about Patents and its basics.

 ***

# Day 4 23/09/2023 #
> **TASKS:**

- Created a poster for an NGO.

- Tried the drive questions in Python.

- 2048 game for refreshment.

 ***

# Day 5 24/09/2023 #
> **TASKS:**

- Edited and delivered a Flyer to an NGO in Milwaukee, Chicago.

- 2048 game

- Surfed about Stocks and the market related news.

 ***

# Day 6 25/09/2023 #
> **TASKS:**

Java's speciality: 


Java is Simple and Portable 

It is safe because pointers are not used.  

It is platform independent. 

It also achieves high performance by the Byte code, which will be portable and that will be converted to the native machine language 


**Example code:**


class HelloWorld  

{ 

public static void main(String args[])  

{  

System.out.println("Hello World!");  

}  

}

Class is the keyword for creating a class.. 

HelloWorld is the identifier/name of the class. 

 

main is the starting point of the program. 

void returns and gets nothing. 
public is the visibility/accessibility of the class. 

Statements are terminated using Semicolon ( ; ) 

 

When the programmer save the code, it is saved as a byte code with the extension ".class". 

Then the byte code is converted to the native code and the code gets executed. 

 
 ***

# Day 7 26/09/2023 #
> **TASKS:**


**Variables**: 


It is name/identifier which holds up the value.  

 
Rules for naming a variable: 

1) A-Z letters and numericals can be used. 

2) $ and _ can be used. 

 

Note: 

Variable should never start with numericals and it should not have space in it. 

 

Example: 
 

Char Gender 

int a1 

float _blood 


**Data Types**: 


Int – It is a whole numberical value. 

float – It has a decimal value with two decimal points. 

char – It has single character. 

boolean – It has only TRUE and FALSE value. 

Null – It does not have value. 

 

Syntax of variable: 

<Variable type> <Variable name> 


Eg: int a; 


Initializing variable: 

<Variable type> <Variable name> = Value 


Eg: int a = 10; 
 

Getting a value from user: 

Scanner.nextLine() 


 ***


# Day 8 27/09/2023 #
> **TASKS:**

Arithmetic Operations:

 +	add
 -	subtract
 /	divide
 *	multiply
 %	modulus division
 ++	post and pre-increment
 --	post and pre-decrement

Example:

 public class Arithmetic{
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        int answer; 
        int add = 20;
        answer = add + 2;

        System.out.println("The addition of add and 2 is: " + answer);
    }
    }
        
**Math class:**

It is in the java.lang class. It has exponential functions like squareRoot, cubeRoot,power,logrithmic, trignometry, Minimum maximum value etc.



**Comparitive Operators:**

<	Less than
>	Greater than
<=	Less than or equal to
>=	Greater than or equal to
==	Equal to
!=	Not equal to

***

# Day 8 29/09/2023 #
> **TASKS:**

**String:**

String is a class that is built in the java.util package.
The String starts with Double Quotes(" "). String objects are immutable,they cannot be modified once created.

Strings can be cancatenated, Campared, splitted, length can be find using the functions.




***

# Day 8 29/09/2023 #
> **TASKS:**

Conditional Statements: 

 

It decides whether the specific line of code or block should be executed or not. 

 

Eg: If else, Switch 

 

class Main 

{ 

public static void main(String[] args)  

{  

int a = 10;  

if (a > 0)  

{ 

System.out.println("a is greator than 0");  

}  

}  

} 

 


Class switch_state 

{ 

Public static void main(String[] args) 

{ 

int a=5; 

Switch(a) 

{ 

Case 1:  

system.out.println("The number is 1"); 

break; 

Case 2:  

system.out.println("The number is 2"); 

break; 

Case 3:  

system.out.println("The number is 3"); 

break; 

default: 

System.out.println("The number is higher than 3"); 


} 
} 

} 
 

**Syntax of Conditional Expression:**


( condition ) ? expressionIfTrue : expressionIfFalse; 

***


# Day 8 01/10/2023 #
> **TASKS:**


**For Loop Example:**

class For_Loop {
    public static void main(String args[]) {
        for (int i = 0; i < 10; ++i) {
            // for loop iterates 10 times
            System.out.println("value of i = " + i);
        }
    }
}


For loop has initialization, comparison and increment/decrement in one line. It is easy implementation but has higher time and space complexity.


***

# Day 9 02/10/2023 #
> **TASKS:**


Methods: 
 

It is a mechanism that allows us to implement functionality or attribute behavior to objects. 

 

Syntax: 
 

ClassName{ 

  visibility ReturnType Methodname(parameter_one, parameter_two) 

{ 
      //method body 

    return returnVariable; 

  } 

} 


Visibility: 

It is the accessibility of a  method in the program.

